Real Estate Web Application
Welcome to the Real Estate Web Application! This project is designed to provide a seamless experience for users looking to buy, sell, or rent properties. The application is built using modern web technologies and offers a range of features to make property management easy and efficient.
Table of Contents
Introduction
Features
Installation
Usage
Contributing
Future Enhancements
License
Introduction
The Real Estate Web Application is a comprehensive platform that allows users to list properties, search for properties, and manage their listings. It is built with a focus on user experience and performance.
Features
User Authentication: Secure login and registration system.
Property Listings: Add, edit, and delete property listings.
Search Functionality: Advanced search options to find the perfect property.
Responsive Design: Optimized for both desktop and mobile devices.
Interactive Maps: View properties on an interactive map.
Favorites: Save favorite properties for easy access later.
Installation
To get started with the project, follow these steps:
Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/Dharya17/real_estate_webapp.git
cd real_estate_webapp

Install dependencies:
npm install

Set up the database:
Ensure you have MongoDB installed and running.
Create a .env file in the root directory and add your MongoDB connection string:
MONGODB_URI=your_mongodb_connection_string

Run the application:
npm start

Usage
Once the application is up and running, you can access it at http://localhost:3000. Here are some of the main functionalities:
Register/Login: Create a new account or log in with existing credentials.
Add Property: List a new property by providing details such as location, price, and description.
Search Properties: Use the search bar to find properties based on various criteria.
View Property Details: Click on a property to view detailed information and images.
Save Favorites: Save properties to your favorites list for quick access later.
Contributing
We welcome contributions to enhance the project! To contribute, follow these steps:
Fork the repository.
Create a new branch:
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

Make your changes.
Commit your changes:
git commit -m "Add your commit message"

Push to the branch:
git push origin feature/your-feature-name

Create a Pull Request.
Future Enhancements
Machine Learning Integration: We have an ml_algo file that contains a machine learning algorithm for property price prediction. This will be integrated into the application in the future to provide users with price estimates based on various factors.
User Reviews: Allow users to leave reviews and ratings for properties.
Enhanced Search: Implement more advanced search filters and sorting options.
